

[![](../Images/b89eb375-a869-4cfa-8ed3-ea7bad598cc9.jpg)](https://cafedelites.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/Beef-Bourguignon-IMAGE-36-500x500.jpg)

#  Beef Bourguignon

Uncategorized

 **Prep** 15 mins **Cook** 3 hrs
**Source**[Cafedelites.com](https://cafedelites.com/wprm_print/49336)

###  Ingredients

  * **1** tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
  *  **6** ounces (170g) bacon, roughly chopped
  *  **3** pounds (1 1/2 kg) beef brisket, trimmed of fat (chuck steak or stewing beef) cut into 2-inch chunks
  *  **1** large carrot sliced 1/2-inch thick
  *  **1** large white onion, diced
  *  **6** cloves garlic, minced (divided)
  *  **1** pinch coarse salt and freshly ground pepper
  *  **2** tablespoons flour
  *  **12** small pearl onions (optional)
  *  **3** cups red wine like Merlot, Pinot Noir, or a Chianti -- for a milder sauce, use only 2 cups of wine
  *  **2-3** cups beef stock (if using 2 cups of wine, use 3 cups beef stock)
  *  **2** tablespoons tomato paste
  *  **1** beef bullion cube, crushed
  *  **1** teaspoon fresh thyme, finely chopped
  *  **2** tablespoons fresh parsley, finely chopped (divided)
  *  **2** bay leaves
  *  **1** pound fresh small white or brown mushrooms, quartered
  *  **2** tablespoons butter

###  Directions

TRADITIONAL OVEN METHOD:

Preheat oven to 350°F (175°C).

Heat the oil in a large dutch oven or heavy based pot. Sauté the bacon over
medium heat for about 3 minutes, until crisp and browned. Transfer with a
slotted spoon to a large dish and set aside.

Pat dry beef with paper towel; sear in batches in the hot oil/bacon fat until
browned on all sides. Remove to the dish with the bacon.

In the remaining oil/bacon fat, sauté the carrots and diced onions until
softened, (about 3 minutes), then add 4 cloves minced garlic and cook for 1
minute. Drain excess fat (leave about 1 tablespoon in the pan) and return the
bacon and beef back into the pot; season with 1/2 teaspoon coarse salt and 1/4
teaspoon ground pepper. Sprinkle with flour, toss well and cook for 4-5
minutes to brown.

Add the pearl onions, wine and enough stock so that the meat is barely
covered. Then add the tomato paste, bullion and herbs. Bring to a simmer on
the stove.

Cover, transfer to lower part of the oven and simmer for 3 to 4 hours, or
until the meat is fall apart tender (adjust the heat so that the liquid
simmers very slowly).

In the last 5 minutes of cooking time, prepare your mushrooms:

Heat the butter in a medium-sized skillet/pan over heat. When the foam
subsides, add the remaining 2 cloves garlic and cook until fragrant (about 30
seconds), then add in the mushrooms. Cook for about 5 minutes, while shaking
the pan occasionally to coat with the butter. Season with salt and pepper, if
desired. Once they are browned, set aside.

Place a colander over a large pot (I do this in my clean kitchen sink). Remove
the casserole from the oven and carefully empty its contents into the colander
(you want to collect the sauce only). Discard the herbs

Return the beef mixture back into the dutch oven or pot. Add the mushrooms
over the meat.

Remove any fat off the sauce( if any) and simmer for a minute or two, skimming
off any additional fat which rises to the surface.

You should be left with about 2 1/2 cups of sauce thick enough to coat the
back of a spoon lightly.

If the sauce is too thick, add a few tablespoons of stock. If the sauce is too
thin, boil it over medium heat for about 10 minutes, or until reduced to the
right consistency.

Taste for seasoning and adjust salt and pepper, if desired. Pour the sauce
over the meat and vegetables.

If you are serving immediately, simmer the beef bourguignon for 2 to 3 minutes
to heat through.

Garnish with parsley and serve with mashed potatoes, rice or noodles.

To serve the following day, allow the casserole to cool completely, cover and
refrigerate.

The day of serving, remove from refrigerator for at least an hour before
reheating. Place over medium-low heat and let simmer gently for about 10
minutes, basting the meat and vegetables with the sauce.

INSTANT POT BEEF BOURGUIGNON / PRESSURE COOKER:

Set Instant Pot or Cooker to SEAR function (or use a pan on the stove over
medium heat of you wish). Sauté the bacon in 1 tablespoon of oil until crisp
and browned. Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.

Pat dry beef with paper towel; sear in batches until browned on all sides in
the oil/bacon fat.

Return bacon to the pot. Season with 1/2 teaspoon coarse salt and 1/4 teaspoon
ground pepper. Sprinkle with flour, toss well and cook on SEAR for a further
4-5 minutes to brown.

Add in the onions, pearl onions, carrots, wine, 2 cups of stock, tomato paste,
4 cloves minced garlic, bullion and herbs. Stir well, cover and lock the lid
into place. Press Keep Warm/Cancel to stop the Sauté function, then set to
MANUAL mode. Choose HIGH PRESSURE for 30 minutes cook time.

After cooking, allow the pressure to release naturally for 8-10 minutes. Open
the valve and allow and remaining steam to escape (for Instant Pot, turn the
valve from sealing to venting to release the pressure).

While steam is releasing, prepare your buttered mushrooms (OPTIONAL -- or add
them straight in without cooking in butter if desired): Heat the butter in a
medium-sized skillet/pan over medium heat. Add the remaining 2 cloves garlic
and cook until fragrant (about 30 seconds), then add in the mushrooms. Cook
for about 5 minutes, while shaking the pan occasionally to coat with the
butter. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Set aside.

Change the Instant Pot or cooker setting back to the SEAR setting (or SAUTE)
stir well and allow the sauce to thicken uncovered, for a further 5-10
minutes.

Add the buttered mushrooms, garnish with parsley and serve with mashed
potatoes, rice or noodles.

SLOW COOKER BEEF BOURGUIGNON:

In a large pan or skillet, sauté the bacon over medium heat in 1 tablespoon of
oil for about 3 minutes, until crisp and browned. Transfer to 6 quart (litre)
slow cooker bowl.

Pat dry beef with paper towel; sear in batches until browned on all sides in
the oil/bacon fat. Transfer to slow cooker bowl with the bacon, and add in the
onions (both types) and carrots. Season with 1/2 teaspoon coarse salt and 1/4
teaspoon ground pepper, tossing well to combine.

Pour the red wine into the pan or skillet and allow to simmer for 4-5 minutes,
then whisk in the flour until free from lumps. Allow to reduce and thicken
slightly, then pour it into the slow cooker along with 2 cups of stock, tomato
paste, garlic, bullion and herbs.

Mix well to combine all of the ingredients. Cook on high heat setting for 6
hours or low for 8 hours, or until beef is falling apart and tender.

In the last 5 minutes of cooking time, prepare your mushrooms: Heat the butter
in a medium-sized skillet/pan over medium heat. Add the remaining 2 cloves
garlic and cook until fragrant (about 30 seconds), then add in the mushrooms.
Cook for about 5 minutes, while shaking the pan occasionally to coat with the
butter. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Add to the Beef Bourguignon,
mixing them through the sauce before serving.

Garnish with fresh parley and serve with mashed potatoes, rice or noodles.

###  Notes

STOVE TOP BEEF BOURGUIGNON:

In a large dutch oven or heavy based pot, sauté the bacon over medium heat in
1 tablespoon of oil for about 3 minutes, until crisp and browned. Transfer
with a slotted spoon to a large dish and set aside.

Pat dry beef with paper towel; sear in batches in the hot oil/bacon fat until
browned on all sides. Remove to the dish with the bacon.

In the remaining oil/bacon fat, sauté the carrots and diced onions until
softened, (about 3 minutes), then add 4 cloves minced garlic and cook for 1
minute. Drain excess fat and return the bacon and beef back into the pot;
season with 1/2 teaspoon coarse salt and 1/4 teaspoon ground pepper. Sprinkle
with flour, toss well and cook for 4-5 minutes to brown.

Add the pearl onions, wine and enough stock so that the meat is barely
covered. Then add the tomato paste, bullion and herbs. Cover and bring to a
boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, stirring
occasionally, until the meat is falling apart.

In the last 5 minutes of cooking time, prepare your mushrooms: Heat the butter
in a medium-sized skillet/pan over heat. When the foam subsides, add the
remaining 2 cloves garlic and cook until fragrant (about 30 seconds), then add
in the mushrooms. Cook for about 5 minutes, while shaking the pan occasionally
to coat with the butter. Season with salt and pepper, if desired.

Add browned mushrooms to the pot, let simmer for an additional 3 to 5 minutes,
stirring occasionally, to combine.

Garnish with parsley and serve with mashed potatoes, rice or noodles.

###  Nutrition

Calories: 673kcal | Carbohydrates: 17g | Protein: 56g | Fat: 32g | Saturated
Fat: 11g | Cholesterol: 169mg | Sodium: 620mg | Potassium: 1565mg | Fiber: 2g
| Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 2035IU | Vitamin C: 12.4mg | Calcium: 60mg | Iron:
6.3mg

