[![](/images/00c20805-d03f-4ee3-bea2-46732ed228b8.jpg)](https://usercontent1.hubstatic.com/229262_f520.jpg)

#  Vegetarian Okra Gumbo Recipe with Kidney Beans


**Makes** Serves 2  
**Source:** [Hubpages.com](http://hubpages.com/food/Vegetarian-Okra-Gumbo-Recipe-Kidney-Beans)

###  Ingredients

  *   **5** tbsp vegetable oil
  *   **1/4** cup flour
  *   **1/2** tsp paprika
  *   **1** small green bell pepper
  *   **1/2** onion
  *   **1** stalk celery
  *   **2** cloves garlic
  *   **4** tbsp finely minced, fresh parsley
  *   **1/2** tsp liquid smoke
  *   **3** and 1/2 cups white wine
  *   **4** cups water or vegetable stock
  *   **1** and 1/2 cups cut okra
  *   **3** tbsp red wine vinegar
  *   **2** cans drained dark red kidney beans
  *   **1** can diced tomato
  *   **1** tsp salt
  * freshly ground black pepper (to taste)
  * red pepper (to taste)
  * hot sauce (to taste)

###  Directions

Serve over medium-grained rice.

1). A good, flavorful rioux is the most important part of this veggie gumbo.
Without meat to add flavor and intensity, we have to try to make up for it
here. In a good non-stick sauce / soup pot, bring heat to medium-low. Add the
vegetable oil. Stir in the flour. The flour and oil mixture should be of such
a consistency where stirring produces ridges in the mixture that then slowly
'melt' into the bottom of the pot. The mixture should not be dry and crumby
nor should it be liquid. Add oil or flour as needed to produce the proper
consistency.

2). Over a period of some time -- it could be up to 45 minutes -- stir the
rioux very frequently to insure that it browns evenly and does not scorch or
burn. Some chefs have actually made riouxs on low heat that take as long as 4
hours to cook! (A scorched or burned rioux should be discarded.) When you get
a color like dark caramel or milk-chocolate, then the rioux is done. Add the
paprika and stir in.

3). Meanwhile, remove the skin from your onion and garlic. Wash the other
vegetables. Dice the onion, slice the celery. Chop the green bell pepper.
Finely mince the parsley. Crush the garlic with the flat of the knife then
slice thinly. When the rioux is ready, add liquid smoke, onions, celery, green
pepper, parsley, and garlic. Stir the vegetables and rioux frequently. It is
ready for the next step when the onion is translucent.

4). Add the white wine and water or vegetable stock and stir until the rioux
has dissolved completely. The soup base should be a golden-brown in color and
slightly thick. Add all of the remaining ingredients. (Notice how the soup
thickens noticeably when the okra is added.) Bring to a boil, then reduce heat
to a simmer and cook for about an hour.

5). At the appropriate time from serving time so that your rice can finish
cooking, start the rice following the directions for the variety of rice you
are using.

6). Add salt, black pepper and/or red pepper, as necessary.

7). Serve over medium-grained, boiled rice with a bottle of hot sauce handy.
The beans in the gumbo mixed with the rice make a complete protein. Enjoy!

